docs: :memo: decision post on why to use the Frictionless Data standard (#100)
seedcase-project/decisions: why-frictionless-data/index.qmd

of the tools that exist are strongly focused on corporate needs and on 
providing an extensively featured platform for sharing data and
metadata, without a clear structure to the data or metadata itself.
There are some "data catalog" tools, but many don't fit our
requirements. These are some that exist but that we don't consider, with
reasons given below.

-   [DataHub](https://datahub.io/): Is built with JavaScript and React.
-   [CKAN](https://github.com/ckan/ckan): A data catalog tool that is
    largely focused on a way of presenting data/metadata, without
    consideration for how it is structured.
-   [OpenDataDiscovery](https://opendatadiscovery.org/): Requires a
    Docker container to run, mostly focused on commercial needs, and is
    intended as a platform for hosting and sharing (internal) data.
    There is a command-line interface, but there is no easy
    documentation on how to use it, nor is it actively developed.
-   [OpenMetadata](https://docs.open-metadata.org/v1.4.x): Similar to
    OpenDataDiscovery.

The only real open metadata standard that seems to exist is the
[Frictionless Data](https://frictionlessdata.io/) standard, which

> surprisingly wasn't listed in the resources above (likely for the
> opposite reasons we didn't consider the tools they list).

Author: ```suggestion
surprisingly wasn't listed in the resources above. This is likely for the
opposite reasons we didn't consider the tools they list.
```

### Frictionless Data

[Frictionless Data](https://frictionlessdata.io/) and its companion
[Data Package](https://datapackage.org/) are a set of specifications for
structuring metadata and describing a set of files that contain data.
With Data Package, a file is created called `datapackage.json` that
stores metadata about a collection of data files.

::::: columns
::: column
#### Benefits

-   Documentation is extremely easy to use and follow.
-   The overall design and architecture of the standard is easy to
    understand and well designed.
-   Interacts with multiple programming languages and services,
    including Python and GitHub.
-   Has clearly described principles and values, which make it easy to
    understand the intent of the standard.
-   Everything is stored in a JSON file, which makes it
    machine-readable.
-   The Python package provides functionality to extract the metadata of

>     data files and to create

Author: ```suggestion
    data files and to validate the input data against the metadata.
```

metadata, without a clear structure to the data or metadata itself.
There are some "data catalog" tools, but many don't fit our
requirements. These are some that exist but that we don't consider, with
reasons given below.

-   [DataHub](https://datahub.io/): Is built with JavaScript and React.
-   [CKAN](https://github.com/ckan/ckan): A data catalog tool that is
    largely focused on a way of presenting data/metadata, without
    consideration for how it is structured.
-   [OpenDataDiscovery](https://opendatadiscovery.org/): Requires a
    Docker container to run, mostly focused on commercial needs, and is
    intended as a platform for hosting and sharing (internal) data.
    There is a command-line interface, but there is no easy
    documentation on how to use it, nor is it actively developed.
-   [OpenMetadata](https://docs.open-metadata.org/v1.4.x): Similar to
    OpenDataDiscovery.

The only real open metadata standard that seems to exist is the
[Frictionless Data](https://frictionlessdata.io/) standard, which
surprisingly wasn't listed in the resources above (likely for the
opposite reasons we didn't consider the tools they list).

### Frictionless Data

> [Frictionless Data](https://frictionlessdata.io/) and it's companion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Frictionless Data](https://frictionlessdata.io/) and its companion
```

[Data Package](https://datapackage.org/) are a set of specifications for
structuring metadata and describing a set of files that contain data.
With Data Package, a file is created called `datapackage.json` that
stores metadata about a collection of data files.

::::: columns
::: column
#### Benefits

-   Documentation is extremely easy to use and follow.
-   The overall design and architecture of the standard is easy to
    understand and well designed.
-   Interacts with multiple programming languages and services,
    including Python and GitHub.
-   Has clearly described principles and values, which make it easy to
    understand the intent of the standard.
-   Everything is stored in a JSON file, which makes it
    machine-readable.
-   The Python package provides functionality to extract the metadata of

>     data files and to create

Reviewer: Looks like the end of the sentence is missing

-   Has increasing
    [adoption](https://frictionlessdata.io/adoption/#community-projects)
    in many organizations and projects.
-   Has a clear specification for fields to include in the metadata.
:::

::: column
#### Drawbacks

-   Is still relatively unknown and is not widely used (though, this is
    a problem with all current metadata standards and tools).
:::
:::::

## Decision outcome

::: content-hidden
What decision was made, use the form "We decided on CHOICE because of
REASONS."
:::

While there are no real alternatives to Frictionless Data that fit our
requirements, there are many strong reasons to use it as is described
above. For instance, the principles and values align closely with ours

> and the organization who owns and is responsible for development of this
> standard, which is the Open Knowledge Foundation and is a non-profit
> organization, does work in other areas that also align with our values
> and principles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and this standard is owned and developed by the non-profit Open 
Knowledge Foundation, who do work in other areas that also align 
with our values and principles.
```
Something like this maybe?
